---
layout: ../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: My experience trying to keep focus on work
description: This is my process a
slug: focus-work
---

I've had a lot of problems keeping forcus on work all my life, it didn't matter that if I had a professor or school to watch over me. I would just not do the work if I didn't want to. That obviusly as I have matured it has diled down a little on my brain, not because it just happened but because I took notice and I went a found professional help for this problem. 

Basically she helped me build a system for me to work. Everything I going to say next you probably have heard it before, but hell... this is my blog post. This all applies to both for studing and work.

1. Remove all posible distractions from your enviroment (as I write this with a twitch stream on my other monitor :joy: )

   Multitasking doesn't really exist that is what computers are for. as long as we are humans we will only be able to do one thing right at the time. You could definetly 
   
2. Write down the **Final** objective that you want to archive. Then write down the different steps that you would need to do to archive that, you need to do this in the most amount of steps that make sense as posible (I also add comments in the steps to clarify). This will allow you to have a clear pathway for success instead of guessing what you need to do for completing a task. **This tip is specially usefull for work.** 

   #### Example of steps: Redesign the portafolio to Astro

   1. Create a Main layout with header and footer (copy from current index.html file). Leave content empty.
   2. Import Main Layout to index.astro for positioning (There will not be any content of the portafolio).
   3. Grab the portafolio summaries and convert to markdown. 
      1. Include pictures to import to public folder. 
   4. Make astro layout for the small summary that will loop inside index.astro page. 
   5. Fix the footer not being in the bottom when there is not enough content.
   6. Import posts mardown files and loop into the astro layout for showing the texts.
   7. Fix the css for reverting the text and picture portafolio summary loop so there is the order:  text - picture and then picture - left

You can see that this is much easier to follow than just having a final objective. If posible I like to have them set up in a way that I can actually skip a step if I get stuck, of course this is not always posible.


1. Try to actually take breaks (15-20 min for me is a good time). Be aware if you enter in a state of flow becuase it's probably better to keep working a then resting a little more after. 
   
I have noticed that I never enter a state of flow if I have distractions in my surruandings, this includes Podcast or Videos anything stimulating other parts of my brain. I do use some level of music (low fi without voices) for muting outside noices. 

4. **KNOW WHEN TO ASK FOR HELP**  This incredibly important, know communities where you can ask for help Reddit is an incredible resource for all kinds of knowledge, I have used reddit for help in programming in Javascript and Rust, there are Matrix and Discord servers where the community is incredibly useful. Obviously StackOverflow is the king of info on programming.  
   
**Remember: For every topic there's community of people that know more than you and are willing to help.**

5. You are going to have more productive days then others. I'm experiencing this right now in my new Job. They are completly new technologies and languages so I have to use a lot of brain power in everything I do so you need to know that this is normal and that people know that you are not going to be **100%** all day every day.